Thank you everyone, again, thank you, everyone, thank you, welcome, everyone, thank you, thank you,
everyone, good morning, good morning, thank you, thank you.
Again we continue to follow the teaching and so follow the teaching according to my capabilities,
all what we can observe with teaching.
The teaching is so vast and profound and deep and a nugget directly revealing of our energy and
nature.
But really our duality mind and this knowledge is limited because of due to this obscration, so
that how much we can observe, how much we can really take.
But whatever we observe, whatever we've got, that we should take that with courage, commitment, and
with a lawyer, with determination, really trying to bring some result in our lives.
Where we have life, this life, and it reminds us how much we have, how long we have, we don't know,
but how whatever it is, we like to make something that we can carry, go with us,
and leave this wall with this nugget. All the material things, what we are all going to love,
something so good, beautiful, inspiring to develop in other ways, now and in the future.
But some nugget, what we carry is really teaching that our practice and meditation, meditation,
what we practice, that is really something that we carry.
That will help us this lifetime and it will help and continue sparking and brighten our future, the
rest of the nation.
So that is what really is so important and so beneficial that.
And that's why all the great masters, great practitioners of the lineage, everything went through
that, through that, inspired themselves, inspire others.
And then also the bundles of the realization and the qualities and the richness, they reworked from
the gift of their own, the nature of the mind, and carried that, that, that, and inspired and
brightened up their destination in the future lives.
So that is what is really the meaning of the practices.
And Mahayana practices, of course, in Vedayana practice is best upon the body getters. Again, as we
always remind each other, joy in appreciation.
That is so important. I'm not saying it's important. That is fundamental of our foundation of the
practice, joy in appreciation.
We practice with joy. We practice with devotion. We practice with appreciation, thankful, grateful
ness.
That is how we begin, brighten up with that, then add the body getters, kind and compete.
And we've all heard so many songs on the body getters, and we know that what means intellectually,
but also kind of activating body getters each and every time.
And every session in the teachings, it is so important, activating body getters.
Every session we need to be practicing. Every session, joy in the devotion, in the appreciation,
activating.
And every session, although understanding and reminding of the pole, renunciation pole, pole point
that will reverse our mind from the samsara attachment, samsara mind.
It's something, whatever you practice, those are each session in the teachings. It's so good. It's
not just teaching.
That's what all those practitioners suggest is great realizing being, such as Malarepa, Nunkinpa,
and all this Maha-Ragoda, Jammu-Kundra.
I mean, all, really, you name it. All the new people, but every one follow that same, but they don
't have any different things than us.
They have no kind of special kind of session they do practices. What they practice, what they've
got, the realization will follow in the same thing, same teaching, same path, same techniques.
That's what, because they shared as their realization, they shared their techniques, they shared
our experience.
Buddha did it too. When he got the realization, the enlightenment, then he shared the knowledge
with love and compassion, exactly as it is.
That's what I was received by all these great practitioners, masters, arabas, bodhisattvas.
They got those realization. They shared that. They continued. And that's what we were really
following that.
And then now, everyone, that was the following. So, again, we have all those good and true, and
attitude, and thought, and with that.
And then, also, we were reading and teaching, offering, or doki teaching, seeing everything,
everything is three kaya state, three kaya state.
And she sees that. That means the subject is three kaya, object is three kaya. We went all the day.
Kya Khwa Thalurana, a great master, pointed out very clearly that this whole, everything, how is it
three kaya state.
And so, those kind of mind, those is very important. That's how we really begin.
Now, we go to the teaching itself, but I just thought, oh, look, thought, let me, of course, we all
know.
But I thought, let's talk a little bit of bodhisattva. Bodhisattva has two bodhisattva, of course,
you know.
A relative bodhisattva and an absolute true bodhisattva. Doki teaching is an absolute true bodhis
attva.
That's an absolute true bodhisattva. And a relative bodhisattva, I thought, a little bit also
discussed that.
You never have to remind each other, ask either. And bodhisattva is a combination of compassion and
a loving kindness and a great wisdom.
All the emptiness, every symbol you tell, emptiness and the compassion, united thought.
That union of is known as bodhika. In the teaching of prasÄgya and some making, the compassion is
more projected at these two aspects.
Compassion is more projected to the old beings of six lambs.
That, of course, see the situation of all the difficulty, troubles of the old beings of six lambs.
Even we didn't see all the beings of six lambs, due to our, again, due to our limitation of
knowledge.
But we see so many beings. We see human beings. We see the animal rams. So many beings.
And we see how much they struggle. According to Buddhism, everyone has the same intention.
Be happy, be joy, be peaceful. It doesn't matter whatever the point they have, whether they can
express their feelings or not.
The deep don't desire is the same in Buddhism. There is no difference.
Whether it is small, whether it is big, or whether it is just medium, or whatever can make them the
other. Really.
So we see so many beings, the human beings. And human beings are considering upper three rams,
one of the upper three rams. We all know that. There are six rams. Three upper rams is one of them.
Upper ram is human beings. But even human beings, how much we devote through the challenge in the
difficulties.
Everyone wants the same desire as I, as you, want to be happy, peaceful, healthy, joy, and
fulfillment.
And well-being. That's what we do, praise you. Well-being and fulfillment. That's the desires.
And that is to all the beings, and all everyone. But not getting that.
Not they are receiving that. But they are achieving that. In the Grand Master Dargadatta, Shanti
Deva said,
Shanti said, "Why is that happening? Because our ignorance, even there is good cause to be happy in
the joy and peace,
due to the ignorance, we spoil. Completely do the opposite. Instead, making something nice and
beautiful
that would help you to ask. But due to the ignorance, we think that's the best we should do, and we
spoil."
And what do you say that? And in it, debate. Deva and beauty, the more present, if you have done
this,
the destroying one's own cause of happiness, happiness, happiness as by enemies. As enemies.
We call it anyone who is destroying us. And the cause of happiness, one's own happiness,
destroyed by ourself as by enemies because of our ignorance. Ignorance and unknowing situations.
So that's the dilemma, all of that. Therefore, then, in the teaching, always,
both each other, loving kindness taught, comparing the thought for all the beings, everyone has the
same desire.
And although not just the same desire, everyone has the same nature, same quality, same potential
as we, or as I, as you, everyone. Everyone has a Buddha nature, enlightenment nature. No one is
out of that. But yet, so many varieties of the all different things, situations, going through,
experiencing through them. Why? Because due to our cause of the suffering truth or the ignorance.
Cause of the suffering truth has 5,000 or 3,000, but fundamentally, which is, is ignorance.
Ignorance created the ego cleanliness. Ego, ignorant is so. Ego cleanliness is supported,
maintained by the ignorance. Ignorance. And then all the other emotions are created by the
ignorance. So we make all this thinking of good things, making all that. And then that becomes
the cause of suffering truth. Then result. There is a cause. If there is a conjugate,
the result cannot stop. Cannot stop. If cause is there, if conjugate is there,
absolutely 100% one, the result will come. That's the rule of the systems. It will come.
So going through all the different causes, different experiences. Therefore, then this
compassion versus combined triggers is so important. And that is, and bodhicata, as you all know,
it has two. A relative bodhicata has two. Wishing bodhicata and actualizing bodhicata. Or engaging
bodhicata. Or activating bodhicata. Many great oscillators, I saw that oscillated differently,
is actualizing bodhicata. I always say, actualize bodhicata. First is intention bodhicata. And the
second is what you have intended in the heart and mind, actualizing that with the mind, with the
heart, with the physical, with the bubble, activating the actualizing bodhicata. Or engaging bodhic
ata.
Engaging bodhicata. So that is. And at this aspiration, wishing bodhicata. Thinking of all
means. The other is one way. May all living beings have the happiness, the cause of happiness.
Every living being has great happiness. Really wishing every living being. We don't need any
distractions, partiality. Every living being, whether we see, whether we don't see, whether we
know, whether we don't know. Reaching sincerely. And dedicating our marriage, every activity, our
virtuous activity. Meditation, practicing, starting at every, those virtues dedicated
to all those beings. As great bodhisattva, meditation is doing and as great bodhisattva,
summon the Buddha into it. Also the great teacher, Buddha mentioned these two great bodhisattva has
the best capability, the best way to dedicate a marriage for all living beings. That's the
really in the teaching sense. If we don't know exactly how to dedicate a marriage, I will dedicate
my all the virtues, my all the marital activities of the past and the present and the preachers,
and all together. All together and plus all the marital activities of the buddhas, bodhisattva,
right now performing, right now that performing. Those all marital activities and all the ordinary
business as me or I ask what they are doing or good activities. Though they are married, you can
kind of put together all that as one package and then distribute to all the sentient beings,
to all living beings. As great bodhisattva, summon the Buddha and meditation is dedicated.
If we do that in the teaching sense, it is so much powerful, effective,
effective for very powerful to help with all the beings, all the beings, but also it helps us.
Ask what it does. It purifies obscurations. It accommodates the merits.
Not just only that, one time when we dedicate the merit in the right way, in the teaching sense,
that will last forever because you pay merit dedicated for all living beings,
for their enlightenment. Until there is enlightenment, our merit will continue increase
and that means also our negative obscuration is puttified, continuous. So that's why one in the
teaching mentioned that among all the virtues, the relative to the virtues, the activity,
dedication is one very powerful meritually activated. It's best on the compassion and
bodhisattva in a good heart and really wishing to every living being, living beings, good things.
So that is what the bodhisattva is. And then as you all know, with that more wishing bodhisattva,
with that intention, that thought, more activated that bodhisattva is poor, immeasurable. And often
I translate it, poor, boundless. Whether you put poor, boundless, or poor, immeasurable, it's the
same one thing. It is what it is. And immeasurable has in the teaching sense, it has, why it's
called
immeasurable? It has so many immeasurable powers, immeasurable powers. First, immeasurable power,
because we're dedicated in that vision today, that all living beings. So in our heart, in the mind,
where the arising is immeasurable, immeasurable, we don't, we don't have limitation of our
awareness of Rupa, as we're discussing in the Dukki teaching. Rupa has no boundaries,
no limitation. Rupa is pervasive as a sky that we learn, that arising from that,
this bodhisattva is arising from that, poor, immeasurable, arising from the Rupa.
So the soul is immeasurable, and the way of projecting is immeasurable. We cannot put
numbers of living beings. How many beings of six rams a day? Countless. One gracious teacher,
Buddha said, as far as space goes, that far sentient beings exist, or beings exist. As long
as sentient beings exist, they all have the emotions, and as long as they have the emotions,
they have the karmas. They have the karmas. As long as they have the karmas, that long,
they are challenging, difficulty, struggle. So our compassion, this body that we project to all the
living beings, so the object is immeasurable. Subject is immeasurable, and then benefit
is immeasurable, immeasurable, benefit to all the beings, and as well as accumulated merit is
immeasurable for us. Even without bodhisattva's compassion, without bodhisattva's loving kindness,
small love and compassion, with regular love and compassion, has so much power in the teaching
state. It really has so much power. But bodhisattva is limitless, boundless love, not just love,
not just compassion. It's boundless love, boundless compassion for all living beings.
That's called beauty and performance of the bodhisattva's love and compassion.
So this, when we develop that, looking practitioners, always in the teaching state,
the great master, when you read, and Muharramudri read their life stories or their spiritual songs,
how much they have compassion, how much they have love, how much they have kindness,
really. And the great master, Muharramudri read all those. Realizing the beings, when they got
a realization of the absolute truth and nature of the mind, their heart is filled with compassion.
Heart is filled with loving kindness, and compassion and a realization of the emptiness
goes target, comes to target. There is a story. It's not a story. It's a true story.
Not just a story. It's a teaching state. And the great master
Atisha, when he came to Tibet, when he came to Tibet, he gave so many teachings. He stayed
about 10 years in Tibet, and he gave a lot of teachings. One of the foremost students was
Dr. Thumba Dhyabranjuni. Dr. Thumba Dhyabranjuni was as his attendance, and I think it looks like
attendance. He's the principal disciple of Tibet. Even he came to Tibet, one of the principal
purposes is to meet Dr. Thumba Dhyabranjuni in the teaching state. He said before he's coming from
India, he hesitated going to Tibet, because the Tibet is foreign, and the calamity, and all this
food and style is all really different than India. So he kind of hesitated, but then he prayed to
Tara, and Tara is like his personal or duty or he has to protect him, and he can see Tara and
see the teaching directly from Tara. So he asked Tara whether he should go to Tibet or not. It will
benefit or not. He said, "Oh, stay here." Tara said, "If you go to Tibet, you will benefit to the
teaching so much, and particularly one individually you will meet. Through that, you can benefit
so, or the teaching, teaching, teaching, and the being so much. If you stay, but if you go to Tibet
,
it will shorten it, shorten your lives, shorten your life, but it becomes very powerful. If you
stay here in India, your life will be longer than going to Tibet." So then he decided, "Oh,
everything is benefiting for the beings and the techies. That is my whole purpose and wish. I'm
going over. I'm going." So that's where he came. And that purpose, one individual that Tara
mentioned,
was Dron Dron Bajevarayun, that he was foremost disciple of the Dron Dron, sorry, articias. So
one time, Dron Dron asked to articias. Articias, he said, "Every converse of all the teachings of
the
Buddha put together in a more simple way, what is that practice? What is this that teaching is?"
Articias says, "That is union of the emptiness and compassion. That is the essence of all the
Buddha teachings. What even Buddha gave the teaching from day one is teaching at Varanasi
and at Mahatma in Narayana, age 81 of that. The whole of 45 years his teaching, combined in one
simple way, is compassion and emptiness, united target. Empliness is also known as
wisdom and compassion target. That is." And then Dron Bajevaras asked that, "How does that come
if it's all token like that?" Many people said, "I've got the realization of emptiness. I've got
the realization of emptiness." But they're so emotional. So emotional, they really can't lie.
They have so much emotions. Why they say, "Why is that great teacher?" And the articias said, "Oh,
that will of the emptiness become called maut maut m-o-u-t-h. It's only here. Up to here,
it's not in here. So in the Tibetan we call it kata. Kata means will of maut, will of maut,
but it's really God's realization. Ever you have the realization of emptiness,
exactly as it is, that person will become so kind in the compassion that compassion and
emptiness can't target. Why? Because we're in the zouki teaching.
Nature of the mind, the zouki is the union of the wisdom and compassion,
wisdom and compassion. When we refer that without a block of the ego clinging to the
obscurations, then that compassion is of all mercy. And we took it with the realization
of the zouki, great peace. And he said, "All that," he said, "if you have the realization of the
emptiness and compassion, that person becomes so gentle, so peaceful, and overwhelming of the
compassion, compassion is like one medicine that cures all the diseases.
This realization of the emptiness and compassion together is cured all the obscurations,
all the emotions, all will be cured by that. And then the disciple, great master, who is a great
master too, really very famous, he asked how that can happen. He said, "All the Buddha teachings,
all the practice teachings, all can be summarized into six paramatas. All the teaching can be
summarized or practiced in six paramatas. When you have the realization,
of the great emptiness and compassion together, that individually don't have
that too much attachment, too much attachment to anything, therefore that person has generous
the paramata always without any interruptions, because they don't have attachment, too much
external or inner things. Generous practice always, not just once in a while, once in a while,
always. When you have the realization of that realization of the emptiness and compassion
together, that person don't have the division, such as partitions of the "me" and the "you"
with anger and with attachment. And therefore, that person will never do any unwholesome activities
.
Therefore, that person individually has morality, paramata, always continue uninterrupted
all the time. They have that. And that person, when you have that realization of the emptiness
and the union of the emptiness and the compassion together, they don't have see, this also have,
don't have any negative emotions, angers, angers. Then they have always, always a passion paramata.
Always a passion paramata without any interruption, interrupted. When you have realization of that
great emptiness and compassion together, that person is not distracted by anything,
by anything. All kinds of feelings like slow or laziness, they are always, so this is not
distract, that that person is not, not feel laziness. Always they are excited with the
continuity to maintain that quality of the compassion and the emptiness together. Therefore,
they have continuation, uninterrupted, joyful efforts, all the community. When you have that
realization, understanding of that, we don't see it. Emotions are not disturbed. Therefore,
they have always, the beyond paramata, concentration paramata, all continuing paramatas.
When you don't have any attachments, clingings to any subject and object,
they have the worst paramata all the time. So therefore, now all the sex paramata again
comes within one single state of the union, of the emptiness and compassion. And that is
self-born, a wellness western in the Dokkiti. Dokkiti, that's what we also discussed the other day,
kind of reminded, Dokkit, Chishin, Rupa Rila, encompassed all the paths and all the bhumi,
and all the fulfillment, all the results, we're not missing anything. We're really able to maintain
in our Rupa state, as an instructor or Chishin said, we maintain that, that we are maintaining
all practices. So therefore, this is again, this bodhicata, the union of the bodhicata,
again, this is the practicing bodhicata, is really the practicing of the very fundamental
of the Dokkiti meditation, and as well as all the teachings, it really captures that. So that is
how
it captures. And again, we go back to the fourth boneless. So the fourth boneless, first boneless
of the negative is compassion, loving kindness, as we joined in the prayers. May all beings,
prefer, may all living beings have the happiness and the cause of happiness. So that is, may all
living beings have happiness and the cause of happiness. That is the important, post-omegradable,
post-omegradable loving kindness. And the second one is, of course, you all know,
is this compassion, and may all living beings prefer suffering and cause of suffering.
This cause of all living beings. Actually, also, if we can use another way to kind of,
in a way, if we look to another angle of this, this phrase, that also these points to our
religious praying, for example, for gracious teaching, Buddha's first teaching,
amodical noble truth, positive truth, true truth, what? Suffering truth, cause of suffering truth.
Cause of suffering truth, and suffering truth. Cause the prayer for all may living beings'
happiness, cause happiness, that's the pacifically we pray, every living beings are free from
suffering, suffering truth. Suffering, every living beings is free from suffering. Second, this one
,
may all living beings have great faith, may all living beings are free from the cause of suffering
truth and suffering truth. Did I mess it up? Something? Maybe I messed it up. First one is,
may all living beings have the happiness, cause of happiness. That is the post-less love,
post-less love. And that is highlighted indirectly, may all living beings are free from suffering
truth, suffering truth. Second is, may all living beings are free from the suffering, cause of
suffering truth. That is also indirectly, we pray, all living beings are free from the suffering,
cause of suffering truth. So why pray that we are eliminating, bring poor, among the poor,
noble truth, positive truth, really we are taskforming into the worship and the compassion today.
So that. And then third part of it is the continuity, same thing, is greater joy,
boneless joy or immigrable joy. And that is, may all living beings never suffer from
supreme happiness, which is without suffering. It's union of the compassion and wisdom of
compassion
and love. And fourth one is the equanimity. It's balance. They are all living with the
great understanding. Perfectly means equanimity, free from both attachment and to the close ones,
rejection to the others, all the teachings. But ultimately, it's called the Dzokilayo,
this is the other, going beyond that. We go beyond that. That is the Rupa status.
Rupa, relational Rupa status. All this love in the comparison, joy arises from the Rupa.
The absolute nature of the mind is really arising. And it's settled in that status.
That is the great equanimity, not just at the conception level, equanimity, but it's the
equanimity, realization of exactly true nature. That moment will be merging samsara, nirvana,
in the same status. Same nature, same status. Whether it's the competition, whether it's the
loving kind, whether it's the joy and the appreciation, where it came from. It came from Rupa.
Eminently from Rupa. It's the display of the Rupa. And it's ornament of the Rupa.
As like in the teaching mission, the tides and the waves and the ripples are part of the ocean.
Tides and the waves and the ripples of the ocean is not separate from the ocean. It's all.
Whether that's happening or all that is happening on the, that ripples in tides and waves. It's
within the ocean. And it went back. Ocean. It came from ocean. It happened in the ocean. It went
back to the ocean. It never lost its quality. The ocean is the water, whatever that is.
Same thing. All this display of love and compassion. And joy. Everything you all
project to all the same things is arising from our Rupa states. Rupa states.
And so, however, at a relative level, we should activate our great compassion with love and
compassion and joy and everything. Exactly really that is same thing. And activating that is so
powerful. So tremendously beneficial and powerful that. So that those, we don't understand it. And
then we also practice it. Every time you mean we look at meditation, practice, every second,
we can activate it. As I said earlier, you all know, and we have heard so many times,
it's not the first time we talk of it. But activating our practice, and then it really
addresses ourselves. So grounded and so strong. And our understanding and our confidence
has become so uncheckable, uncheckable. We're not disturbed by all the obstacles of different
emotions. Doubt and hesitation and skeptical, these and that thing. Those are the obstacles.
Those are the robles of the virtues. Doubt and hesitation and skeptical. And all those things,
the ones we settled, our practice, we should be strong, be confirmed, and stay with that and
cheat the goal for the goal. Activate that. That is. So those are with those.